Notes from Lesson 3 Storage Factory:

The ability for smart contracts to interact with each other seamlessly is knows as composibility. Smart contracts are composible beacuse they can't easily
interact with each other.

The way to define any varibles is

    Dataype visbility name;
eg: uint256 public favoriteNumber;

Solidity is case sensitive.

When working with multiple files, its important to keep the versions of the file aligned together.

Normal imports vs Named imports

named imports allow you to specify which contract you want to import from the file, whereas normal ones import all of the contracts present in the file.

import { SimpleStorage } from "./SimpleStorage.sol"; // Named imports (Better version)
import "./SimpleStorage.sol"; // Normal imports 

named imports should always be the convention

To interact with a contract, you'll always need two things:

1. The contract address
2. The contract ABI (Application Binary Interface)

ABI will tell our code how it can interact with our contract.

Since we're using instances of SimpleStorage contracts we, have both the addresses and the ABIs that we can use to fire the 
store and retrieve functions in every single contract.

Inheritance:

Inheriting contracts lets you use all of the contracts variables and functions in the contract which inherits, for example if contract A inherits contract B, then 
contract A will have all functions/variables of contract B. The syntax for inheritance is:

Contract A is B {}

Now if you want to change something in contract B when it is inherited by A, you can do something called overriding.

There are two keywords which you should know for overriding:

Virtual
Override

When overriding a function you add the "override" modifier in its signature. 
And to make a function overridable you need to add the "virtual" modifier in its signature.

A function signature is the name, parameters, modifiers of a function. Eg:

function store(uin256 _number) public pure returns(uint256) {
    return _number;
}

"function store(uin256 _number) public pure returns(uint256)" This is the function signature.


RECAP:

Using new keyword you deploy contracts from other contracts using code.
We can import contracts which is same as copy pasting code from the contract.
We can use named imports to specify exactly which contract we want to import.
We can interact with other smart contracts, if we have the address and the ABI.
If we want to make a contract inherit the properties/attributes of a contract then we can use the "is" keyword
in its contract declaration.
To override a function use the "override" modifier in the signature.
To make a function overridable use the "virtual" modifier in the signature.

Lesson 3 Challenge Contract: https://sepolia.etherscan.io/address/0x4A62A8901e6113dEF0AEeEC77E531779cd40da73#code