Notes from Lesson 1 Blockchain Basics:

Bitcoin was made by Satoshi Nakamoto implementing the first Blockchain in 2009. Bitcoin has a set amount for scarcity.

Vitalik Buterin was the second person to implement another Blockchain called Ethereum in 2013. It was not only for transactions but to
also run smart contracts and decentralized applications.

Back in 1994 a man named Nick Szabo came up with the idea of smart contracts. Smart Contracts are a set of instruction executed in a
decentralized way without the need for a centralized or third party intermediary.
Smart contract cannot be altered (immutable), they automatically execute on the blockchain when certain conditions are met. Everyone
on the blockchain can see the terms of the contract and the execution of the contract.

Smart contracts removes centralizedforces and counterparty risk

The main difference between Ethereum and Bitcoin is that Ethereum has smart contracts which can be used to make applications, legal documents,
agreements etc whereas in Bitcoin you can only make transactions.

An issue with smart contracts is that if we want smart contracts to replace physical agreements in our lives they would need data from the real world.
This issue is known as the "Oracle Problem". Smart contracts can't directly interact with real world data, they need oracles to do that.

Blockchain Oracles are third part service that interacts with the off-chain world to provide external data or computation to smart contracts.
If we want our blockchain to be fully decentralized then we can't work with a single oracle or a single source which will be running these oracles, to fix
this we would need a decentralized oracle network similar to our blockchain. Both of these networks would need to be decentralized.

Combining this on-chain decentralized logic (Smart Contracts) with off-chain decentralized data (Oracles) give rise to a new concept called 
Hybrid Smart Contracts (On-chain + off-Chain) agreements. Most of the biggest protocols we interact with today on Web3 are using 
hybrid smart contracts or interact with hybrid smart contracts.

This is what Chainlink does, it brings in decentralized data and decentralized logic together to create hybrid smart contracts, making sure
that the smart contract is decentralized end to end while giving them the feature we need. Chainlink allows for us to get data to upkeep, 
get random numbers, or customize our smart contract in meaningful ways.

Chainlink is the most popular and powerful decentralized oracle network, it is the one we're gonna be using in this course. It is also
blockchain agnostic so it'll work on any blockchain out there.

What is L2 or Layer2?

The basic concept is that blockchains can get massive with the data in it. The basic answer is that we can hook many different blockchains
into it to solve the scalibility issue. Like Ethereum is a main blockchain and (Arbitrum, Poygon, Optimism) are side chains built on top of
Ethereum. Layer2s solve this scalibility issues.

There are two types of Layer2s:

1. Optimistic Rollups like Arbitrum and Optimism

2. Zero Knowledge Rollups like zkSync and Polygon zkEVM



Term Web3:

Web1 is permissionless ope sourced web with static contents.

Web2 is the permissioned web, with dynamic content. Where companies run your agreements on their servers.

Web3 is the permissionless web with dynamic content. Where decentralized censorship resistant networks run your agreement and code. It 
generally is accompanied by the idea of user owned ecosystems, where the protocols you interact with you also own a portion of, instead
of solely being the product.


What is the value of smart contracts? What problem does it solve?

They create trust minimized agreements. They give rise to unbreakable agreements.
The purpose of smart contracts is to solve the issue of breaking promises between two parties.

When smart contracts work with oracles they can solve real world problems, create contracts that benefit the human kind taking the issue
of risk and being cheated out of the equation.

QUICK RECAP:

- Bitcoin was the first protocol to implement blockchain technology in 2009. It was created by Satoshi Nakamoto.

- Ethereum was the second protocol to implement blockchain technology in 2013. It was created by Vitalik Buterin. They enabled people to make
smart contracts, decentralized trust minimized agreements. These smarts contracts can use data from real work using something decentralized oracle
networks called Chainlink. They combine decentralized logic with decentralized real world data to create hybrid smart contracts and solving
real world issues.

Benefits of Blockchain:

1- Decentralized, many node operators (software run by people) around the world run this network and make it decentralized.
2- Every node can see the data on the blockchain which enables transparency and flexibility.
3- Speed and efficiency in transactions is another benefit.
4- Security and immutablity is also another benefit, this means once data is on the blockchain it cannot be changed.
5- Hacking a blockchin is leaps and bounds more difficult than hacking a centralized database.
6- Blockchain also remove the centralized forces and counterparty risk.


What have Smart Contracts done so far?

DeFi = Decentralized Finance
DeApp = Decentralized Application
DeX = Decentralized Exchange
DAOs = Decentralized Autonoumous Organizations
NFTs = Non Fungible Tokens



What is Gas and transaction fees?

Transactions are run by a group of nodes and their incentive to run these transactions
is that they get paid a bit of native currency of the blockchain. This incentives people
to run the network. They get paid more, as the more gas the transaction uses.

What is Gas?
Gas is a unit of computational measurement, the more complex a transaction is
the more gas it will use.

To calculate how much eth is going to be used in a transaction?

Transaction fees = Gas Price * Gas used

As busy the network gets, the expensive the gas fees becomes and vice versa.


What is Hash??

A hash is a unique fixed length string, meant to identify a piece of data. They are created
by placing said data into a "hash function".

A hash algorithm or hash function is a function that computes data into a unique hash.

Ethereum uses Keccak256 for its hashing algorithm. The one we're gonna use is SHA256 Hash.

The genesis is block is the first ever block that's created in the blockchain, its hash will always be zeros.

Mining:

The process of finding a "solution" to the blockchain "problem". In this case, the "probelm" was to find a hash
that starts with four zeros. Nodes get paid for mining blocks.

A block is a list of transactions mined together, it consists of nonce, transaction and previous hash, and a timestamp.

Nonce:

A "number used once" to find the "solution" to the blockchain problem. Its also used to define the transaciton number for an
account/address.


Signing Transactions:

A private key is only knows to the key holder, its used to sign transactions on the blockchain.

Etherum and Bitcoin both use Eliliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm (ECDSA) which is a vairant of Digital Signautre Algorithm (DSA) 

A private key is used to generate a public using the above alogrithm which can be give to anyone to make transactions with.

The private key is like a password to digitally sign transactions on the blockchain.

Mneomic phrase or secret phrase combined with account number gives different unique private keys.

The public key is derived from your private key. Anyone can see it and use it to verify that a transaction came from you.


Signing a transaction is a one way process. Someone with a private key signs a transaction by their private key being hashed with their transaction
data. Anyone can then verify this new transacion hash with your public key.

Private Key > Public Key/Address

Secret Phrase >> Private Key >> Public Key/Address


How are new private keys generated in metamask? 

They take the secret phrase and combine it with the account number which goes through an algorithm, which gives them a private key.
This private key then generates the public key.


Gas II:

Block Rewards & EIP 1559

TLDR of this section;

The more people use a chain, the more expensive it is to send transactions;


According to EIP-1559, every transaction on Etherem network comes with base fees. This is the minimum gas price to send your transaction on
the blockchain.

Then there is a max fees which is the maximum amount of gas you're willing to pay for your transaction.

And then there is Max priority fees, which is the tip that you're willing to pay to the miner to get your transaction mined faster.

Currently on Ethereum, the base fees always gets burnt, it also shows in the transaction fees. The max priority fees goes to the miner.

This means that whenever you do a transaction, a small portion of Ethereum is removed from circulation forever. And the other part goes to the miner.

The base gas fees for a transaction will go up and down depending on how busy the network is. If the network is busy, the base gas fees will go up and vice versa.

The base fees get programmatically adjusted to try to target for all the blocks to be 50% full. If they're more than 50% full, then the base fees will go up and keep increaseing
until the block usage go less than 50%.


Recap:

Unique teransaction hash that identifes the transacion
Status and block number of the transaction
Block confirmation is the number of blocks that have been mined after the block that your transaction was mined in.
Timestamp of the transaction
The initator of the transaction called "From"
To is the address of the person you're sending the transaction to
Value is the amount of ether you're sending
Transaction fee is the amount of ether you're paying to send the transaction
Gas price is the amount of ether you're paying per unit of gas
Gas limit is the maximum amount of gas you're willing to pay for the transaction
Usage is the amount of gas used by the transaction
The base fees is the base network fees per gas
Max gas is the maximum amount of gas you're willing to pay for the transaction
Max priority is the max gas price + the tip you're willing to give the minor to get your transaction mined faster
Burnt is the amount of ether that gets burnt from the base fees
Txn Saving is the difference between how much was actually used and returned.
You can see Txn Type, and Nonce as well.
And then Input data, for transfers of Eth the input data will be empty. But for smart contract interactions, it will be the function call and the parameters of the function call.


High Level Blockchain Fundamentals:

Anyone can join the network and contribute in the blockchain, which is the a benefit of decentralization.
There are some hardware requirements to run a node, which is the only hurdle in the way because it can be expensive to own.

Blockchain don't have the issue of going down because there are many nodes running the blockchain and even if all node goes down except one, the blockchain will still be up and running.
Majority rules in blockchains.

Blockchain nodes keep list of all the transactions that have ever happened on the blockchain, this is called the ledger. This ledger is immutable and cannot be changed.

What is consensus??

Consensus is the process of agreeing on a single source of truth. In blockchain, this is done by the nodes agreeing on the next block to be added to the blockchain.

In Etherem Blockchain reaching consensus means that at least 66% of the nodes on the network agree on the global state of the network.

The two main consensus mechanisms are Proof of Work and Proof of Stake.

A consensus protocol in a blockchain can be broken down into two pieces:

1. Chain Selection
2. Sybil Resistance mechanism

The mining algorithm or Proof of Work and Proof of Stake are known as the Sybil Resistance mechanism. This is what Bitcoin uses and Ethereum previously used. Currently Proof Of Stake is being used in Ethereum.

Sybil attack is when one user or group of user pretend to be many users.

Chain Selection rules is used to decide which chain is the correct chain. Bit coin uses the longest chain rules which means that whichever blockchain is the longest will be the one
that rest of the nodes accept as valid and work with. For proof-of-work chains, the longest chain is determined by the chain's total cumulative proof-of-work difficulty. Ethereum used 
to use the longest chain rule too; however, now that Ethereum runs on proof-of-stake it adopted an updated fork-choice algorithm that measures the 'weight' of the chain. The weight is the accumulated 
sum of validator votes, weighted by validator staked-ether balances.

In proof of work, the nodes goes through computational work to find a nonce that will make the hash of the block start with a certain number of zeros. This is how the nodes agree on the next block to be added to the blockchain.
Sometimes blockchains will intentionally make these computations difficult or easy to change whats called "Block Time"

Block time is how long it takes for blocks to be published which is proportional to how hard these computations are.


Proof of work is a combination of the chain rule and sybil resistance. The chain rule is the longest chain rule and the sybil resistance is the mining algorithm.

The reward goes to the miners in proof of work and the reward goes to the validators in proof of stake.

In proof of work all nodes are competing to find the answer to the blockchain riddle first, and whichever node finds it first gets to add the next block to the blockchain and gets rewarded for it.
But this makes proof of work very enery intensive and expensive.


Because of POW enery intensive nature, many blockchains are opting for proof of stake.

Proof of Stake protocol is being used by Avalanch, Solana, Polygon, Polkadot and Ethereum.

Proof of Stake nodes put up collateral as a sybil resistance mechanism. This collateral is called stake. If the misbehave in the network they're going to be removed some of their stake. This prevents entites making
multiple account because each account has to pay minimum stake which is 32 Eth which is ($60,000 as of now). Miners are called validators in this protocol.

IN proof of stake nodes are randomly chosen to propose a new block and the rest of the validators will validate if the node has proposed the block honestly.

Pros are that it is more energy efficient, and a great sybil resistance mechanism.

Cons are that its considered as a bit less decentralized network due to the upfront staking cost. 

Two types of attacks that can happen in the blockchain world:


1. Sybil Attack

Sybil attack is when user creates many psudo anonymous identities to gain control of the network. This is why proof of work and proof of stake are sybil resistant.

2. 51% Attack

51% attack is when a user or group of users gain control of 51% of the network. This is why proof of work and proof of stake are sybil resistant. 
51% attack has happened on Eth classic blockchain in the past. This is why the bigger a blockchain becomes the more decentralized it becomes.

There are also terms Layer 1 and Layer 2 in the blockchain world.

Layer 1 are base layer blockchain implementations like Bitcoin, Etherem and Avalanche.
A layer 2 is any application build on top of a layer 1 blockchain like Chainlink, Arbitrum and Optimism.
Artbitrum and Optimism are also known as Rollups because they rollup their transactions into a layer 1 like Ethereum.
These L2s solve scalibility issues so people can use another blockchain to make transcations.

Now L2s, and rollups are different from sidechains because sidechains derive their security form their own protocols whereas rollups derive theirs from base layers.
Arbitrum and Optimism are gonna be just as secure as Ethereum

RECAP:

Sybil attacks are prevented due to protols like POF and POS
51% attack become increasingly difficult as the network grows
Consensus is the mechanism that allows the blockchain to agree on what the state of the network is
Sharding and rollups are solutions to scalibility issues on layer 1s
A layer 1 is a base blockchain implementations
The scalibility problem is that there's not always enough block space for amount of transaction in them which leads to high gas prices