---------------------------------
Lesson 7 Part 1 | Foundry Fund Me

We are gonna be creating our remix-fund-me project in Foundry toolkit now.

We'll be doing professional testing, scripting and deployment using Foundry.


--------------------------------------
Lesson 7 Part 2 | Testing Introduction

You can use the following command to run the tests:

forge test

This command will run all the tests in the test file and check if they pass or fail.
In our Counter.t.sol file, what will happen is:

1. It will deploy our Counter smart contract, sets the number to 0
2. Then increments the number to 1, then checks/asserts if the number is equal to 1


---------------------------------
Lesson 7 Part 3 | Setup continued

We copy all of the contract from RemixFundMe and copy it in this project.

We can install the dependencies using:

forge install ${organizationName/repoName}@${version} ${flags}
Eg: forge install smartcontractkit/chainlink-brownie-contracts@0.8.0 --no-commit

Use "forge compile" to compile the contracts.


----------------------
Lesson 7 Part 4 | Test

You cannot go for an audit without writing tests for your smart contract, you will be rejected and be perceived as an amateur.
Writing badass tests separates you from all the mediocre devs.

import test from 'forge-std/Test.sol' to import all the test functions.

The first function that always runs in your test file is the "setUp" function.

Import the console function to console.log in your contract.

In order to enable visiblity of logging you need to use the command "forge test -vv"

"assertEq" mean assert Equals to. Use this function to check if a value equals to another value.

The first thing when writing tests is to:

Check if our contract is deploying correctly:
    - Import the contract in the test file
    - Deploy the contract in the setUp function
    - Check the contract deployment by checking a public variable or function


---------------------------------
Lesson 7 Part 5 | Debugging Tests

How to find out what's the issue when a test fails?

We can console.log the variables to check thier values.

Use the command "forge test -vv" to enable verbose logging.


-----------------------------------------
Lesson 7 Part 6 | Advanced Deploy Scripts

Scripting allows you to deploy your smart contracts on one command instead of deploying them manually.
This makes the process smooth and hassle free.

Import the Script contract from "forge-std/Script.sol" to use the functions.

Create the run function to deploy the contract.

vm.startBroadcast() means send everything after this line to the RPC. 
And vm.stopBroadcast() means stop sending after this line.


------------------------------
Lesson 7 Part 7 | Forked Tests

To run a single test use below command:

forge test --match-test ${testFunctionName}

The default behavior for forge test is to only display a summary of passing and failing tests. 
You can control this behavior by increasing the verbosity (using the -v flag). 
Each level of verbosity adds more information:

Level 2 (-vv): Logs emitted during tests are also displayed. That includes assertion errors from tests, 
showing information such as expected vs actual.
Level 3 (-vvv): Stack traces for failing tests are also displayed.
Level 4 (-vvvv): Stack traces for all tests are displayed, and setup traces for failing tests are displayed.
Level 5 (-vvvvv): Stack traces and setup traces are always displayed.


When you run tests or deploy contract without specifying the network, it runs on the local anvil blockchain.

What should we do to work with contracts outside our local blockchain?

When we run our tests, we can pass an $RPC_URL in the --fork-url flag which will fork the blockchain from that url.

Eg: forge test --match-test ${testFunctionName} -vvv --fork-url ${RPC_URL}

The issue with forking is that you will run many API calls which will run up your bill. So try to avoid forking as much as possible.
Only do it with the tests that can't be done locally.

We can use the below command to see how much our code is tested, we can pass the RPC_URL as well using the --fork-url flag

forge coverage 

Testing modes:
1. Unit
    - Testing a specific part of our code

2. Integration
    - Testing how our code works with other parts of our code

3. Forked
    - Testing our code on a simulated real environment

4. Staging
    - Testing our code in a real environment that is not production


----------------------------------------
Lesson 7 Part 8 | Testing Deploy Scripts

We always need to make sure that our code is modular and reusable.
It shouldn't have any hardcoded values anywhere.

Refactoring means when you're not changing any functionality but just the way the code is written.
Or the improving the performance and modularity of the code.

Always make sure that you are not repeating your code anywhere.

Make sure the deploy and testing scripts have the same variables and values.

And whenever creating smart contracts, make sure they can operate interchangebely on different chains.


----------------------------------------------
Lesson 7 Part 9 | Refactoring II Helper Config

If you test your code by always passing the --fork-url which will make API calls to the RPC then
it will run up your bill even when you don't want to test the forked tests.

In order to avoid that, we can create something called Mock tests. What happens that it will create
our own mock contract on our local anvil blockchain for the duration of the test.

We can create a helper config file in our deploy scripts to return the right network price feed based on the chainId.
So our code will work interchangebely on every EVM chain.


------------------------------------------
Lesson 7 Part 10 | Refactoring III Mocking

A mock contract is a dummy contract, a fake contract. We can deploy these mock contracts on our local blockchain and
return their addresses to test our code.

--------------------------------
Lesson 7 Part 11 | Magic Numbers

When you use numbers in your code without any explanation, it is called a magic number.
So when you later on after a long time look at the same code you'll not understand what that number means right away
without some digging. So in order to avoid that, we create constant variables and use them instead of the directly using numbers.

This makes our code readable and understandable.


----------------------------------------
Lesson 7 Part 12 | Refactoring Continued

Always make sure you name your functions as verbose so you know what they do just by looking at the name.

Now after the Helper config, we can run all of our tests using "forge test" without having to pass the --fork-url flag.
It will deploy and use our mock tests in case of no --fork-url flag, it will work without failing, and will be cheaper
and faster.


----------------------------------
Lesson 7 Part 13 | More Cheatcodes

You can go to the foundry docs and check out the cheatcodes section to see all the cheatcodes you can benefit from.

The expectRevert() cheatcode allows us to revert the next line. It is equivalent to assert(this tx fails/reverts)

For naming convention in variables, use prefixes to show the variable type. A storage variable with s_, immutable with
i_ and constant variables with UPPER_CASE naming.

Also, declare all storage variables private unless required to be public.

Function orders should generally follow a pattern, like this:

// Functions Order:
//// constructor
//// receive
//// fallback
//// external
//// public
//// internal
//// private
//// view / pure

Another cheatcode which solves the issue of knowing which contracts executes which function is the "prank" cheatcode.
It sets msg.sender to the specified address for the next call.

There's another cheatcode called "makeAddr" which creates a new address from the provided name.

Another cheatcode called "deeal" which allows us to set balance of an address. It takes the name of the address and the amount.

--------------------------------
Lesson 7 Part 14 | More Coverage

Every time you run a test, or all of the tests. The setup function gets called everytime.
And then all of the test functions or the selected function runs.

The cheatcode vm.expectRevert() ignores the vm objects and just reverts the next line.

We should make sure our tests contain as minimal code as required but still completing all the tests
required.

You can create modifiers if there is repeating test or setup code required. Then just attach that modifier
in the function declaration and it will run the modifier code before running the function code. This will 
save you a lot of time and code.

When writing tests, follow the below pattern:

Arrange: First do the required setup for the test.

Act: Then do the action you want to test.

Assert: Then assert the test

The cheatcode "hoax" sets up a prank from an address that has some ether. It is from the forge-std library.
If the balance is not specified, it will be set to 2^128 wei.

As you can generate address 0 with address(0), you can generate addresses using address(1), address(2) etc as well.
But the parameter passed in address() should be a uint160. It is cause uint160 has same bytes as address.

vm.startPrank() and vm.stopPrank() works the same as vm.startBroadcast() and vm.stopBroadcast(). Anything in between
will be sent by the address specified in the vm.startPrank() function.